Astronomer Cloud release notes 12/2 (#183)
astronomer/cloud-docs: docs/release-notes.md

If you have any questions or a bug to report, don't hesitate to reach out to us via Slack or Intercom. We're here to help.

**Latest Runtime Version**: 4.0.6 ([Release notes](runtime-release-notes.md))

**Latest CLI Version**: 1.0.3 ([Release notes](cli-release-notes.md))

## December 2, 2021

### "Usage" Tab in the Astronomer UI

Total task volume for your Organization is now available in a new **Usage** tab in the Astronomer Cloud UI. Astronomer Cloud is priced based on successful task runs, so this view can help you monitor both Astronomer cost as well as Airflow usage in aggregate and between Deployments.

![Usage tab in the Astronomer UI](/img/docs/usage.png)

For more information about the **Usage** tab, read [Deployment Metrics](deployment-metrics.md#usage).

> ### New Regions for Cluster Creation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### New AWS Regions for Cluster Creation
```

You can now create new Clusters in:

- `ap-northeast-1 `
- `ap-southeast-1`
- `ap-northeast-2`
- `ap-southeast-2`

> - `ap-south-1`
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `ap-south-1`

For a full list of AWS regions supported on Astronomer Cloud, see [AWS Resource Reference](https://docs.astronomer.io/resource-reference-aws#aws-region).
```

### Minor Improvements

> - You can now see a Deployment's Kubernetes **Namespace** in the **Deployments** menu and on the Deployment information screen:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You can now see your Deployment's Kubernetes **Namespace** in the **Deployments** menu and on the Deployment information screen. Namespace is a required argument to run tasks with the KubernetesPodOperator. If you submit an issue to Astronomer Support, stating your Deployment's namespace is also required.
```

    ![Deployment namespace available on a Deployment's information page](/img/docs/namespace.png)

- The Astronomer UI now shows a warning if you attempt to exit Environment Variable configuration without saving your changes.

> - A Deployment's health status is now based on the health of both the webserver and the scheduler.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A Deployment's health status is now based on the health of both the Airflow Webserver and Scheduler. Previously, a Deployment's health status was only based on the health of the Webserver. Now, the Astronomer UI will only show that your Deployment is "Healthy" if both components are running as expected.
```

![Usage tab in the Astronomer UI](/img/docs/usage.png)

The tab includes bar charts showing your Organization's total task runs per day over the last 31 days, sorted by Deployment. Each color in the bar chart represents a different Deployment. A legend on the right side of the menu shows the colors used for each Deployment.

To see each Deployment's number of successful task runs for a given day, you can hover over the bar chart for that day with your mouse. Additionally, the legend shows each Deployment's total number of successful task runs over the last 31 days.

### Minor Improvements

- You can now see a Deployment's Kubernetes **Namespace** in the **Deployments** menu and on the Deployment information screen:

    ![Deployment namespace available on a Deployment's information page](/img/docs/namespace.png)

- The Astronomer UI now shows a warning if you attempt to exit Environment Variable configuration without saving.
- A Deployment's health status is now based on the health of both the webserver and the scheduler.
- You can now create new Clusters in:
    - `ap-northeast-1 `
    - `ap-southeast-1`
    - `ap-northeast-2`
    - `ap-southeast-2`
    - `ap-south-1`

>     - `eu-central-1`

Reviewer 2: Please remove reference to any EU regions. We are not ready to publicly offer/advertise them yet.

> **Latest CLI Version**: 1.0.3 ([Release notes](cli-release-notes.md))

Reviewer: Latest Runtime version is 4.0.6

Author: Are these being announced in the releases channel on Slack? I've been looking there to see whether we need to document additional versions

## December 2, 2021

> ### Usage Metrics

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### New "Usage" tab in the Astronomer UI
```

> You can use the new **Usage** tab in the Astronomer Cloud UI to review the number of successful task runs across Deployments and ensure that you are keeping operational costs to a minimum.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Total task volume for your Organization is now available in a new **Usage** tab in the Astronomer Cloud UI. Astronomer Cloud is priced based on successful task runs, so this view can help you monitor both Astronomer cost as well as Airflow usage in aggregate and between Deployments.
```

![Usage tab in the Astronomer UI](/img/docs/usage.png)

The tab includes bar charts showing your Organization's total task runs per day over the last 31 days, sorted by Deployment. Each color in the bar chart represents a different Deployment. A legend on the right side of the menu shows the colors used for each Deployment.

> To see each Deployment's number of successful task runs for a given day, you can hover over the bar chart for that day with your mouse. Additionally, the legend shows each Deployment's total number of successful task runs over the last 31 days.

Reviewer: Should we cut this out and link to the `deployment metrics` doc?

### Minor Improvements

- You can now see a Deployment's Kubernetes **Namespace** in the **Deployments** menu and on the Deployment information screen:

    ![Deployment namespace available on a Deployment's information page](/img/docs/namespace.png)

> - The Astronomer UI now shows a warning if you attempt to exit Environment Variable configuration without saving.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The Astronomer UI now shows a warning if you attempt to exit Environment Variable configuration without saving your changes.
```

- A Deployment's health status is now based on the health of both the webserver and the scheduler.
- You can now create new Clusters in:
    - `ap-northeast-1 `
    - `ap-southeast-1`
    - `ap-northeast-2`
    - `ap-southeast-2`

>     - `ap-south-1`

Reviewer: This is actually quite a few regions (and it's significant to our sales team), let's bubble this up to an H3 feature even if it's short

### Bug Fixes

> - The Astronomer UI now has error handling for accessing a non-existent Deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The Astronomer UI now has error handling for attempts to access a Deployment that does not exist.
```

> - When editing secret environment variables, the **Value** field is now blank instead of showing hidden characters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you attempt to modify an existing secret environment variable, the **Value** field is now blank instead of showing hidden characters.
```

### Data Plane Improvements

> - EBS volumes have been upgraded from gp2 to [gp3](https://aws.amazon.com/about-aws/whats-new/2020/12/introducing-new-amazon-ebs-general-purpose-volumes-gp3/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Amazon EBS volumes have been upgraded from gp2 to [gp3](https://aws.amazon.com/about-aws/whats-new/2020/12/introducing-new-amazon-ebs-general-purpose-volumes-gp3/) for improved scale and performance.
```

> - EBS volumes and S3 buckets are now encrypted by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Encryption for EBS volumes and S3 buckets is now enabled.
```

@chomipi88 Can a customer in theory override this? I.e. set `"Encrypted": false`?

Reviewer 2: Yes. They have full access to the account at the end of the day.

> - Public access to S3 buckets is now disabled by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The ability to enable public access to any Amazon S3 bucket on an Astronomer Cloud data plane is now blocked. Previously, public access was disabled by default but could be overriden by AWS account owners.
```

@chomipi88 Is this more accurate? Looking at the GH issue for this feature, it's less that "public access was on before and now it was off" and more "now we literally won't let you turn it on"

Reviewer 2: Customer can change this policy at the account level and provision S3 buckets with public access. 
That said, we should word this specific to the account policy being set to disabled by default for public. We already had our S3 bucket disabled for public.
